bundle of doc improvements (#8974)
lampepfl/dotty: docs/docs/reference/changed-features/implicit-resolution.md

layout: doc-page
title: "Changes in Implicit Resolution"
---

> This page describes changes to the implicit resolution of old-style `implicit`s in Dotty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page describes changes to the implicit resolution that apply both to the new `given`s and to the old-style `implicit`s in Dotty.
```

more aggressively for performance. There are also some changes that
affect implicits on the language level.

>  1. Types of `given` values and result types of `given` methods

Reviewer: No, here we have to keep `implicit`. These changes apply to old-style implicit vals, not new givens. So most changes in this file need to be reverted. I'll only mark those we can keep.

    must be explicitly declared. Excepted are only values in local blocks
    where the type may still be inferred:
    ```scala
    class C {

      val ctx: Context = ...        // ok

      /*!*/ given val x = ...    // error: type must be defined explicitly

      /*!*/ given def y = ...    // error: type must be defined explicitly

      val y = {
        given val ctx = this.ctx // ok
        ...
      }
    ```
 2. Nesting is now taken into account for selecting a given.
    Consider for instance the following scenario:
    ```scala
    def f(using i: C) = {
      def g(using j: C) = {
        summon[C]
      }
    }
    ```
    This will now resolve the `summon` call to `j`, because `j` is nested
    more deeply than `i`. Previously, this would have resulted in an
    ambiguity error. The previous possibility of an implicit search failure
    due to _shadowing_ (where an implicit is hidden by a nested definition)
    no longer applies.

>  3. Package prefixes no longer contribute to the implicit search scope of a type.

Reviewer: this change is OK

      type C
    }
    ```
    Both `a` and `b` are visible as givens at the point of the definition
    of `type C`. However, a reference to `p.o.C` outside of package `p` will

>     have only `b` in its implicit search scope but not `a`.

Reviewer: this change is OK

    which implements negation directly. For any query type `Q`: `Not[Q]` succeeds if and only if
    the implicit search for `Q` fails.

 5. The treatment of divergence errors has also changed. A divergent implicit is
 5. The treatment of divergence errors has also changed. A divergent `given` is
    treated as a normal failure, after which alternatives are still tried. This also makes
    sense: Encountering a divergent implicit means that we assume that no finite

>     solution can be found on the given path, but another path can still be tried. By contrast

Reviewer: given -> corresponding is OK
